README.md, before:

# IPFS Pinner

This service provides a blockchain-based authentication wrapper for ipfs requests.

This is a mono-repo with the following packages:

- [`server`](./packages/server): Exposes the REST API.
- [`shared`](./packages/shared): Libraries shared among other sub-repos.
- [`worker`](./packages/worker): Background worker for veryfing and cleaning uploaded files.


## Local Docker setup

Development environment is configured using [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

First make sure to create your own `.env`:
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```

Docker setup includes a Grafana dashboard for logs and metrics, which requires a Docker plugin:
```bash
docker plugin install  grafana/loki-docker-driver:latest --alias loki --grant-all-permissions
```

Finally, spin up docker containers with:
```bash
docker-compose up --build -d
```

- Rest API is available at http://localhost:8000
- Grafana dashboard is available at http://localhost:5000

When finished remove the containers with:
```bash
docker-compose down
```


## Development and testing

Docker compose is set up using `nodemon` with some local volume mounts for quicker development (`src`, `test` and `shared/build`, see `docker-compose.yaml` for details)

Repos can be built locally using:
```bash
yarn lerna bootstrap
yarn build:shared # shared only
yarn build        # all packages
```

Note that `nodemon` cannot pick up changed files from `shared` sub-repo after `yarn build:shared`, so you need to restart the containers:
```bash
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

Local tests can then be run using:
```bash
docker-compose exec test yarn test:server
docker-compose exec test yarn test:worker
```

## Grafana dashboard updates

To update the dashboard, click `Ctrl+S` > `Copy JSON to clipboard` and overwrite the file in `monitoring/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/ipfs-pinner.json`.


## CI/CD

For CI/CD we are using [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions).

Currently we have 3 workflows:

### 1. Staging CI/CD

- For automated tests -> on every non-master commit
- For deploying to staging server -> on every commit in the `development` branch

### 2. Production CI/CD

For automated tests and deploying to production when creating `v*` tags in the `master` branch.

Deployments can be triggered using lerna:
```bash
yarn lerna version [ major | minor | patch ]
```

### 3. Dashboard CI/CD

For pushing the Grafana dashboard on any change in `development`/`master` branch.

Commit message:

Client: added client libraries and rest api docs (#11)
* added client

* rest api docs

* fixed endpoint path issues

* v0.0.2

* minor readme fixes

* removed debug log

* made filepath mandatory to avoid api errors

* run npm publish inside built docker image

README.md, after:

# IPFS Pinner

This service provides a blockchain-based authentication wrapper for ipfs requests.

This is a mono-repo with the following packages:

- [`client`](./packages/client): Client library for integrating into other projects.
- [`server`](./packages/server): Exposes the REST API.
- [`shared`](./packages/shared): Libraries shared among other sub-repos.
- [`worker`](./packages/worker): Background worker for veryfing and cleaning uploaded files.


## Local Docker setup

Development environment is configured using [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

First make sure to create your own `.env`:
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```

Docker setup includes a Grafana dashboard for logs and metrics, which requires a Docker plugin:
```bash
docker plugin install  grafana/loki-docker-driver:latest --alias loki --grant-all-permissions
```

Finally, spin up docker containers with:
```bash
docker-compose up --build -d
```

- Rest API is available at http://localhost:8000
- Grafana dashboard is available at http://localhost:5000

When finished remove the containers with:
```bash
docker-compose down
```


## Development and testing

Docker compose is set up using `nodemon` with some local volume mounts for quicker development (`src`, `test` and `shared/build`, see `docker-compose.yaml` for details)

Repos can be built locally using:
```bash
yarn lerna bootstrap
yarn build:shared # shared only
yarn build        # all packages
```

Note that `nodemon` cannot pick up changed files from `shared` sub-repo after `yarn build:shared`, so you need to restart the containers:
```bash
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

Local tests can then be run using:
```bash
docker-compose exec test yarn test:server
docker-compose exec test yarn test:worker
docker-compose exec test yarn test:client
```

## Grafana dashboard updates

To update the dashboard, click `Ctrl+S` > `Copy JSON to clipboard` and overwrite the file in `monitoring/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/ipfs-pinner.json`.


## CI/CD

For CI/CD we are using [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions).

Currently we have 3 workflows:

### 1. Staging CI/CD

- For automated tests -> on every non-master commit
- For deploying to staging server -> on every commit in the `development` branch

### 2. Production CI/CD

For automated tests and deploying to production when creating `v*` tags in the `master` branch.

Deployments can be triggered using lerna:
```bash
yarn lerna version [ major | minor | patch ]
```

Note that publishing to NPM requires adding `NPM_TOKEN` with `Publish` permission in repo secrets.

### 3. Dashboard CI/CD

For pushing the Grafana dashboard on any change in `development`/`master` branch.
